---
layout: page
author: IanBolger
title: Sporting Events in Cairo
date: 2018-04-02
subheadline: "Ian Bolger"
permalink: /analysis/2018/bolger-analysis
header:
  image_fullwidth:
---
I chose to do my analysis project on the sporting events and performances of the teams and players that take place in Cairo, Egypt. My primary interest in choosing this topic for analysis is that every day of my week (March 5-10, 1906) had the sports section and inside that section was similar events that happened during that week. Another reason I chose to write about the sports that occur in Egypt is that I’m interested in sports and there are sports in the articles, such as polo, that I’m not familiar with and I would like to learn more about. One of the most popular sporting events that occured in Egypt and took up most of the sports section in the newspapers was the Cairo Polo Tournament. This tournament consisted of 5 teams, including the 60th Rifles, Mosquitoes, E.A., Freebooters, and Tourists. Each of the teams had four players, plus the horses that they rode on, which is part of the game for polo.
The 60th Rifles team included Mr. Pardoe, Mr. Seymour, Major Eustace, and Mr. Dalby. The Mosquitoes team included Capt. Stockwell, Mr. Graham, Mr. Dudgeon, and Capt. Bartlett. The E.A. team included Capt. Cox, Capt. Gordon, Capt. Brakenridge, and Capt. Rome. The Freebooters team included Capt. Kennedy, Capt. Protheroe Smith, Mr. Dunbar, and Mr. Rumbold. The Tourists team included Mr. Paravicini, Mr. Pickering, Mr. Akers-Douglas, and Col. Sparkes. Each of the games that were played in the polo tournament consisted of one umpire. The umpires for the tournament were Col. Sparkes, Mr. Dunbar, and Mr. Dalby. The Cairo Polo Tournament articles were in the newspaper for the Monday edition on March 5th, 1906, the Wednesday edition on March 7th, 1906, and the Friday edition on March 9th, 1906. A total of six games were played during the my week of analysis. A polo game is divided into four chukkers, which are periods that usually last around seven minutes.

The first game of the tournament was between the 60th Rifles and the Mosquitoes. In the first chukker of the match, the Mosquitoes were the first on the ball. Dudgeon had a good chance missed, hitting an easy shot wide, while Seymour hit behind twice. Although there was good play, there was no scoring in the first chukker. In the second chukker, there was back and forth play between the teams and Dalby missed a yard or two from the goal. Pardoe then hit a goal for the 60th Rifles. Right after that, Stockwell ran the whole length of the ground and hit a goal. An excellent chukker of play made the score 1-1. In the third chukker, Dalby made an excellent run down the far side and cut well into the center, scoring a goal from a difficult angle. The score after the third chukker was with the 60th Rifles leading, 2-1. In the fourth chukker, there were some chances missed, and the final score was with the 60th Rifles winning the match, 2-1.
The Mosquitoes played better and had more of the game, but the 60th Rifles made well of their opportunities, with Dalby being the most brilliant player of the match.

The second game of the tournament was between E.A. and the Freebooters. In the first chukker, the Freebooters played really well, as Protherce-Smith hit a goal. Freebooters pressed the whole chukker, as they lead after the first chukker, 2-0. In the second chukker, E.A. got back in the game with Rome centering a ball in front of the goal and hitting a goal. E.A. showed improvement with the Freebooters leading, 2-1, after the second chukker. In the third chukker, Brakenridge missed a shot, giving Dunbar an easy shot, in which he scored. The Freebooters kept on playing hard and made the score, 3-1, after the third chukker. In the fourth chukker, a bad hit-out allowed Kennedy to hit a goal, which made the final score of the game, 4-1, with the Freebooters victorious over E.A.
The Freebooters were stronger, quicker, and showed better combination, which gave them the edge to outplay E.A. for the win.

The third game of the tournament was between the 60th Rifles and the Tourists. In the first chukker, there was plenty of galloping and great overall play. Dalby met the ball and finished with a nice stroke to score. The score after the first chukker was with 60th Rifles leading, 1-0. In the second chukker, the 60th Rifles attacked and Seymour ran the ball down to score a beautiful goal. With much of the play favouring the 60th Rifles and the Tourists always being on the defensive side, the 60th Rifles took a commanding lead, 2-0. In the third chukker, the Tourists finally were attacking and playing well, with Paravicini hitting a goal. The Tourists scored again later in the chukker, which made the score tied, 2-2. In the fourth chukker, there was not much good play, and the game ended as tie with the final score, 2-2.
This game had plenty of good polo with good galloping throughout the match.

The fourth game of the tournament was between E.A. and the Mosquitoes. In the first chukker, the Mosquitoes came out dominating, with Stockwell hitting two goals back-to-back. The ball remained in midfield for the majority of the chukker, with the Mosquitoes leading, 2-0. In the second chukker, there were missed chances on both sides of the field, but E.A. attacked with Broadbent scoring a goal. A better chukker with more galloping made the score, 2-1. In the third chukker, the Mosquitoes picked back up the pace, with Dudgeon hitting a goal. Play was back and forth throughout the rest of the chukker with Mosquitoes leading, 3-1. In the fourth chukker, there was little action between the two teams and the final score of the match was 3-1, with Mosquitoes taking the win.
Even though the game was not easy to watch, there was still good individual hitting, with Bartlett playing the best out of everyone.
