---
layout: page
title: <!-- Anti-Semitism in Egypt -->
author: FaithNorthcutt
---
For my analysis project, I plan to focus on the Anti-Semitism reported on in the Egyptian Gazette.
	I chose this topic because of the numerous mentions of death in the Egyptian Gazette; I wanted to learn why these deaths were happening.  When I stumbled across a death due to Anti-Semitic reasons in my week, I researched Anti-Semitism in Egypt during this time. According to the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs, they believe that “Alexandria in Egypt was the birthplace of anti-Semitism’s ideology. There also the first pogrom in history-as we now would call it-took place” (in 38 C.E.) (Horst). The Center also talks about how the first indication of a negative attitude towards the Jewish people stemmed from the writings of the Egyptian Priest, Manetho.  He writes that “Jews are dangerous and enemies of humankind” (Horst). Though many of these ideas and allegations happened long before the early twentieth-century, it is easy to see how effects of these beliefs may have still affected Egyptians during this time as well.   Ironically, though, especially before the war, many Jews moved to Egypt to escape the strict regime of the Ottoman Empire, as Egypt was seen as “a safe haven and land of opportunity” (Takla 28). I would like to see the extent in which Anti-Semitic ideologies are evident in Egypt during this time, especially because it is right before the War. Therefore, I will seek to answer the question: how does the "Egyptian Gazette" show Anti-Semitic ideas in Egypt and the surrounding areas and what does that say about the Egyptian people?

  In order to do this, I will quiery the entirety of the Egyptian Gazette so far.  To do this, I will look up a series of keywords, including Anti-Semitism, Jews, Jewish, and Anti-Semitic. I will look in the local and general section and the telegrams section, as these are where these mentions have occurred. So far, I have found 16 solid results in files from 1905-1906 (I have been having trouble redownloading the updated repository, so I have only looked in older files so far), ranging from articles discussing the Jewish condition in Russia to riots in Warsaw and Anti-Jewish attacks. I will then make a map of all of the locations of Anti-Semitic incidents and will categorize these events into instances of deaths, attacks, rallies, and support, to see what is actually happening in Egypt during the time. I have started looking at the places where these mentions are coming from, according to the dateline in the telegrams section, and most of the reports have been coming from St. Petersburg and Warsaw; St. Petersburg was mentioned 8 times and Warsaw was mentioned 6 times.  This is quite interesting, as there were no reports in Cairo of any Jewish attacks. This could be because of the newspaper not wanting to print bad news about its city, but it most likely appears that Alexandria is a safe-haven for Jewish people.  There have been several articles about Jewish refugees that also support this. I now want to categorize the events mentioned to see exactly what is going on with the Jewish people.

 
Working Bibliography
Takla, Nefertiti. “Murderous Economies: Sex Trafficking and Political Economic Change in Alexandria, Egypt, 1914-1921.” Égypte/Monde Arabe, no. 17 (February 28, 2018): 23–47.
https://ia801901.us.archive.org/22/items/jstor-4558865/4558865.pdf
http://jcpa.org/article/the-egyptian-beginning-of-anti-semitism’s-long-history/
